Silver Sands Motel Housekeeping Operations & Property Data System
Consolidated Planning Document

Objective Create an organized operational and digital system for
managing housekeeping workflow, room inventory, property layout,
maintenance tracking, staff tasks, and operational data. The goal is to
build a simple system that works while actively cleaning rooms, allowing
incremental data collection without disrupting daily work. Core
Operational Strategy Phase 1 --- Information Capture Collect structured
property data: buildings, floors, sectors, rooms, assets, housekeeping
tasks, and maintenance issues.

Phase 2 --- Structured Data System Create a database to track rooms,
locations, status, housekeeping assignments, and asset inventory.

Phase 3 --- Automation Platform Use the Workforce repository
architecture to build tools for room tracking, task lists, bulk updates,
and operational dashboards. Property Layout Structure Property └──
Building └── Floor └── Sector └── Room Known Property Layout Data
Building 1 Floor 1

North Side Sector Rooms: 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7

South Side Sector Rooms: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Room Database Design Table:
rooms

Fields: id -- primary key building -- building number floor -- floor
level sector -- north/south/etc room_number -- room identifier
room_group -- logical grouping housekeeping_status -- clean / dirty /
inspect maintenance_status -- ok / issue last_cleaned -- timestamp
Sector Table Table: sectors

Fields: id building floor sector_name description Room Groups North
Group: 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12

South Group: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Initial SQL Schema CREATE TABLE rooms ( id
SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, building INT, floor INT, sector TEXT, room_number
INT, room_group TEXT, housekeeping_status TEXT DEFAULT 'dirty',
maintenance_status TEXT DEFAULT 'ok', last_cleaned TIMESTAMP ); Example
Room Inserts INSERT INTO rooms
(building,floor,sector,room_number,room_group) VALUES
(1,1,'South',1,'South Group'), (1,1,'South',2,'South Group'),
(1,1,'South',3,'South Group'), (1,1,'South',4,'South Group'),
(1,1,'South',5,'South Group'), (1,1,'South',6,'South Group');

INSERT INTO rooms (building,floor,sector,room_number,room_group) VALUES
(1,1,'North',12,'North Group'), (1,1,'North',11,'North Group'),
(1,1,'North',10,'North Group'), (1,1,'North',9,'North Group'),
(1,1,'North',8,'North Group'), (1,1,'North',7,'North Group'); Bulk
Operations Example UPDATE rooms SET housekeeping_status='clean' WHERE
building=1 AND floor=1 AND sector='North'; Housekeeping Data To Collect
Room info: bed count TV fridge microwave coffee maker heater / AC

Supplies: towels hand towels washcloths sheets pillowcases blankets
trash bags soap shampoo Maintenance Tracking Track issues such as:
broken fixtures lights out plumbing issues HVAC problems furniture
damage Daily Housekeeping Workflow 1. Identify dirty rooms (checkout,
stayover, vacant) 2. Assign room groups 3. Clean rooms 4. Update system
status

Room status flow: Dirty → Cleaning → Clean → Inspected Workforce
Repository Overview The Workforce repository is structured as a Python
backend monorepo.

Top Level: README.md AGENTS.md alembic.ini conftest.py

Signals: Alembic -- database migrations (SQLAlchemy/PostgreSQL) pytest
-- automated testing Monorepo layout -- apps + packages Potential
Automation Tools Housekeeping management dashboard Cleaning assignment
tracking Maintenance reporting system Inventory tracking Operational
reporting and analytics Fast Data Collection Strategy While cleaning
rooms, capture quick notes such as:

Room 12 2 beds fridge microwave heater weak lamp broken

Convert these later into database entries. Immediate Next Steps 1. Map
entire motel layout 2. Create database tables (rooms, sectors, assets,
maintenance, tasks) 3. Populate room records 4. Begin tracking
housekeeping and maintenance data Long Term Goal Build a digital
operations platform for Silver Sands Motel providing: real‑time room
status organized housekeeping workflow asset tracking maintenance
management operational reporting
